Technique example: data loader, R to JSON (#1417)
observablehq/framework: examples/loader-r-to-json/README.md

[Framework examples →](../)

> # R data loader to generate a JSON

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# R data loader to generate JSON
```

Saying “a JSON” feels like “the FaceBook” to me. 😉

View live: <https://observablehq.observablehq.cloud/framework-example-loader-r-to-json/>

> This Observable Framework example demonstrates how to write a data loader in R that accesses text from Tolstoy's _War and Peace_ from Project Gutenberg, does some basic text mining, then generates a JSON with top word counts by book and chapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Observable Framework example demonstrates how to write a data loader in R that accesses text from Tolstoy’s _War and Peace_ from Project Gutenberg, does some basic text mining, then generates JSON with top word counts by book and chapter.
```

I’m a stickler for [curly quotes](https://chrisbracco.com/curly-quotes/)! 😅
